
        Have a look at the list of top performing learners in the National Senior Certificate exams for 2017, which recorded a pass rate of 75.1% with progressed learners, and 76.5% without progressed pupils.
     - TO SEE YOUR RESULTS CLICK HERE 
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Have a look at the list of top performing learners in the National Senior Certificate exams for 2017, which recorded a pass rate of 75.1% with progressed learners, and 76.5% without progressed pupils. Top Maths achievers: 1. Takalani Bambela (Limpopo) 2. Khodani Wonderful Nemalamamgwa (Limpopo) 3. Mogopodi Molusi (Nothern Cape) Top Science: 1. Timera Naidoo (KwaZulu-Natal)  2. Matthys Louis Carstens (Western Cape)  3. Erin Michael Solomons (Western Cape) Top LSEN: 1. Joshua Kelley Chetty (Gauteng)  2. Tumelo Mashigo (Gauteng)  3. Katlego Manone (Free State) Top Math and Science: 1. Takalani Bambela (Limpopo)  2. Khodani Wonderful Nemalamamgwa (Limpopo)  3. Phikolomzi Mjikelwa (Eastern Cape) Top achievers in quintile 1:  1. Reamohetse Mofitiso (Eastern Cape)  2. Boitumelo Ngoepe (Limpopo)  3. Thalentha Ngobeni (Mpumalanga) Top achievers in quintile 2: 1. Siyanda Pikwa (Gauteng)  2. Musiwalo Kutama (Limpopo)  3. Takalani Bambela (Limpopo) Top achievers in quintile 3: 1. Mandisa Xaba (KwaZulu-Natal)  2. Mphoentle Piliso (Eastern Cape)  3. Pikolomzi Mjikelwa (Eastern Cape) Top achievers in quintile 4: 1. Anza Tshipetane (Limpopo)  2. Timera Naidoo (KwaZulu-Natal)  3. Marie-Tinka Olivier (North West) Top achievers in quintile 5: 1. Janke van Dyk (Western Cape)  2. Matthys Carstens (Western Cape)  3. Joanna Smith (KwaZulu-Natal) Zuma congratulates matric class of 2017  President Jacob Zuma has today, 04 January 2018,
congratulated all the matriculants who sat through their National Senior
Certificates examinations in 2017, whose results were released by the Minister
of Basic Education, Mrs Angie Motshekga today.

 With the overall pass rate climbing from 72.5% in 2016 to 75.1% in 2017, the
President has noted the consistently improving pass rate since the dawn of
freedom and democracy in the country.

 “We welcome the fact that the pass rate has consistently improved since the
democratic dispensation, especially since the reconfiguration of Education into
two separate departments namely Basic Education on one hand and Higher
Education and Training on the other hand. This reaffirms Government’s focus on
education as an apex priority and the greatest enabler of the society as well
as a key aspect of our programme of Radical Socio-Economic Transformation,”
said President Zuma.

 President Zuma further encouraged those who did not achieve a university pass
and those who failed never to lose hope, adding that there was a wide choice of
other opportunities.
 “We encourage those who did not pass that there are still plenty opportunities
to be explored to fulfil their dreams. We wish to remind our matriculants of
the many opportunities provided by Technical and Vocational Education and
Training (TVETs) colleges and other vocational training centres across the
country. The learners still have an extra opportunity to better their results
in their second attempt during supplementary examinations to take place at many
matric rewrite centres.  They should use this setback as an opportunity to
reflect and improve,” said the President.

 President Zuma has also called on parents, teachers, friends and relatives to
provide the necessary support to all the Class of 2017 matriculants. RT @scribblingal: Motshekga says more girls  wrote #MatricResults2017 - 54%. "Gender based interventions have improved the performance of girls." National matric results pass rate is 75.1% The 2017 National Senior Certificate pass rate is 75.1% with progressed learners, and 76.5% without progressed pupils. A total of 802 431 pupils wrote the exams, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said in Johannesburg on Thursday evening. The pass rate without progressed learners at 76.5% was up by 0.3% from 76.2% in 2016. The pass rate with progressed pupils 75.1% is up, a 2.6% improvement from last year which was 72.5% Progressed pupils are those who fail a grade for two consecutive years and are then promoted to the next grade. 2017 pass mark including progress learners is at 75.1%, a 2.6% improvement Motshekga says @TeamNews24 #MatricResults2017 On performance of district incl progressed learners, Motshekga says the Free State district attained the highest mark at 90.2% #MatricResults2017 @TeamNews24 Motshekga says there were clear indications that schools in disadvantaged areas have done quite well #MatricResults2017 @TeamNews24 Motshekga says 76.5% of special needs learners passed exams #MatricResults2017 @TeamNews24 Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga appeals to communities, learners and parents to tell those who qualify for supp exams to rewrite, also says those who failed must come repeat #MatricResults2017 @TeamNews24 Minister of Basic Education, Angie Motshekga addresses the crowd. She is about to talk us through the results @TeamNews24 #MatricResults2017 pic.twitter.com/SPxbAtotOG The director general from the department of basic education and training, Hubert Mweli, has delivered a presentation on the technical analysis of the 2017 National Senior Certificate matric results. Here are 11 key points he mentioned:  1) The total number of learners who passed matric since 1970 has increased 10 times from 43 000 in 1970 to more than 400 000 in 2017 2) There has been a slight drop in terms of schools attaining a 100% pass mark  3) The number of schools coming in with a 0% pass mark is 9 compared to 18 in 2016  4) The province with the highest number of bachelor passes is KZN 5) English was the highest enrollment subject in the system 6) Subject performance in accounting and agricultural science dropped, while the raw mark for business studies improved 7) Sepedi continues on a downward trend  8) There were 629 155 full-time Grade 12s and 173 276 part-time  learners 9) 2 777 learners with disabilities sat down for the exams, with 906 passing with a bachelors 10) 1 801 distinctions are recorded from progressed learners - these are learners who have failed the same grade twice and are then promoted to the next grade  11) 500 distinctions are recorded for students getting social grants  DG Mweli says Minister of Higher Education, Hlengiwe Mkhize will address us in the next hour or so @TeamNews24 #MatricResults2017 Minister Motshekga working with Deputy Minister Surty on the final touches to her speech tonight at the Matric results announcement #MatricResults2017 @DBE_SA pic.twitter.com/8wSeoeNKg5 1801 distinctions from progressed learners. Those are learners who have failed the same grade twice and are then promoted to the next grade. 500 distinctions from those on social grants @TeamNews24 #MatricResults2017 Mweli says they had the highest number of learners with disabilities sitting down for exams at 2777. 906 of those learners passed with a bachelors, he says @TeamNews24 #MatricResults2017 Mweli goes into learners with special needs, says we need an inclusive society @TeamNews24 #MatricResults2017 Languages - Sepedi has been going down for some time, experiencing a slow decline for some years. If you fail a home language, you fail says Mweli @TeamNews24 #MatricResults2017 Subject performance - we have dropped in Accounting and Agri Science. Business studies improved in raw mark from 2016, says Mweli @TeamNews24 #MatricResults2017 The number of bachelor passes per province in 2017 show that KZN has the highest number, closely followed by Gauteng #MatricResults2017 @TeamNews24 Mweli says historical trends show that the number of candidates passing matric since 1970 has increased almost tenfold from 43 000 in 1970 to over 400 000 in 2017 #MatricResults2017 @TeamNews24 We are ready for the release of Matric Results tonight. Here are the guests for the Minister. #MatricResults2017 pic.twitter.com/aaMwtSJ90K 
                Jump to
                top
            